client/sdk/docs/models/components/deploymentexternalmcp.md, before:

# DeploymentExternalMCP

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { DeploymentExternalMCP } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: DeploymentExternalMCP = {
  id: "<id>",
  name: "<value>",
  registryId: "<id>",
  slug: "<value>",
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                           | Type                                                            | Required                                                        | Description                                                     |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                                                            | *string*                                                        | :heavy_check_mark:                                              | The ID of the deployment external MCP record.                   |
| `name`                                                          | *string*                                                        | :heavy_check_mark:                                              | The reverse-DNS name of the external MCP server.                |
| `registryId`                                                    | *string*                                                        | :heavy_check_mark:                                              | The ID of the MCP registry the server is from.                  |
| `slug`                                                          | *string*                                                        | :heavy_check_mark:                                              | A short url-friendly label that uniquely identifies a resource. |

Commit message:

feat: allow renaming external mcp sources from registry specifier (#1096)
This changes the design and storage of external MCP sources to separate
name and the specifier of the server in its registry. This allows the
renaming of the sources, which ultimately maps to nicer tool names

client/sdk/docs/models/components/deploymentexternalmcp.md, after:

# DeploymentExternalMCP

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { DeploymentExternalMCP } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: DeploymentExternalMCP = {
  id: "<id>",
  name: "<value>",
  registryId: "<id>",
  registryServerSpecifier: "<value>",
  slug: "<value>",
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                 | Type                                                                  | Required                                                              | Description                                                           |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                                                                  | *string*                                                              | :heavy_check_mark:                                                    | The ID of the deployment external MCP record.                         |
| `name`                                                                | *string*                                                              | :heavy_check_mark:                                                    | The display name for the external MCP server.                         |
| `registryId`                                                          | *string*                                                              | :heavy_check_mark:                                                    | The ID of the MCP registry the server is from.                        |
| `registryServerSpecifier`                                             | *string*                                                              | :heavy_check_mark:                                                    | The canonical server name used to look up the server in the registry. |
| `slug`                                                                | *string*                                                              | :heavy_check_mark:                                                    | A short url-friendly label that uniquely identifies a resource.       |
