client/sdk/docs/models/components/externalmcpserver.md, before:

# ExternalMCPServer

An MCP server from an external registry

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { ExternalMCPServer } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: ExternalMCPServer = {
  description: "yahoo lest joshingly forgery",
  name: "io.modelcontextprotocol.anonymous/exa",
  registryId: "a8daedbf-8518-49c9-b7dd-8d561d9f86cf",
  version: "1.0.0",
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                             | Type                                                              | Required                                                          | Description                                                       | Example                                                           |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `description`                                                     | *string*                                                          | :heavy_check_mark:                                                | Description of what the server does                               |                                                                   |
| `iconUrl`                                                         | *string*                                                          | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                | URL to the server's icon                                          |                                                                   |
| `meta`                                                            | *any*                                                             | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                | Opaque metadata from the registry                                 |                                                                   |
| `name`                                                            | *string*                                                          | :heavy_check_mark:                                                | Server name in reverse-DNS format (e.g., 'io.github.user/server') | io.modelcontextprotocol.anonymous/exa                             |
| `registryId`                                                      | *string*                                                          | :heavy_check_mark:                                                | ID of the registry this server came from                          |                                                                   |
| `title`                                                           | *string*                                                          | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                | Display name for the server                                       |                                                                   |
| `version`                                                         | *string*                                                          | :heavy_check_mark:                                                | Semantic version of the server                                    | 1.0.0                                                             |

Commit message:

separate concepts of registry specifier and name

client/sdk/docs/models/components/externalmcpserver.md, after:

# ExternalMCPServer

An MCP server from an external registry

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { ExternalMCPServer } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: ExternalMCPServer = {
  description: "yahoo lest joshingly forgery",
  registryId: "a8daedbf-8518-49c9-b7dd-8d561d9f86cf",
  registrySpecifier: "io.modelcontextprotocol.anonymous/exa",
  version: "1.0.0",
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                            | Type                                                                             | Required                                                                         | Description                                                                      | Example                                                                          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `description`                                                                    | *string*                                                                         | :heavy_check_mark:                                                               | Description of what the server does                                              |                                                                                  |
| `iconUrl`                                                                        | *string*                                                                         | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                               | URL to the server's icon                                                         |                                                                                  |
| `meta`                                                                           | *any*                                                                            | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                               | Opaque metadata from the registry                                                |                                                                                  |
| `registryId`                                                                     | *string*                                                                         | :heavy_check_mark:                                                               | ID of the registry this server came from                                         |                                                                                  |
| `registrySpecifier`                                                              | *string*                                                                         | :heavy_check_mark:                                                               | Server specifier used to look up in the registry (e.g., 'io.github.user/server') | io.modelcontextprotocol.anonymous/exa                                            |
| `title`                                                                          | *string*                                                                         | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                               | Display name for the server                                                      |                                                                                  |
| `version`                                                                        | *string*                                                                         | :heavy_check_mark:                                                               | Semantic version of the server                                                   | 1.0.0                                                                            |
