client/sdk/docs/models/components/externalmcptooldefinition.md, before:

# ExternalMCPToolDefinition

A proxy tool that references an external MCP server

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { ExternalMCPToolDefinition } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: ExternalMCPToolDefinition = {
  canonicalName: "<value>",
  createdAt: new Date("2026-07-07T10:46:48.668Z"),
  deploymentExternalMcpId: "<id>",
  deploymentId: "<id>",
  description: "mean atop hmph truly like",
  id: "<id>",
  name: "<value>",
  oauthVersion: "<value>",
  projectId: "<id>",
  registryId: "<id>",
  registryServerName: "<value>",
  remoteUrl: "https://overcooked-tuber.biz/",
  requiresOauth: false,
  schema: "<value>",
  slug: "<value>",
  toolUrn: "<value>",
  transportType: "streamable-http",
  updatedAt: new Date("2024-03-12T13:39:32.098Z"),
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                                         | Type                                                                                          | Required                                                                                      | Description                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `canonical`                                                                                   | [components.CanonicalToolAttributes](../../models/components/canonicaltoolattributes.md)      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The original details of a tool                                                                |
| `canonicalName`                                                                               | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The canonical name of the tool. Will be the same as the name if there is no variation.        |
| `confirm`                                                                                     | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Confirmation mode for the tool                                                                |
| `confirmPrompt`                                                                               | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Prompt for the confirmation                                                                   |
| `createdAt`                                                                                   | [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The creation date of the tool.                                                                |
| `deploymentExternalMcpId`                                                                     | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the deployments_external_mcps record                                                |
| `deploymentId`                                                                                | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the deployment                                                                      |
| `description`                                                                                 | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | Description of the tool                                                                       |
| `id`                                                                                          | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the tool                                                                            |
| `name`                                                                                        | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The name of the tool                                                                          |
| `oauthAuthorizationEndpoint`                                                                  | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The OAuth authorization endpoint URL                                                          |
| `oauthRegistrationEndpoint`                                                                   | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The OAuth dynamic client registration endpoint URL                                            |
| `oauthScopesSupported`                                                                        | *string*[]                                                                                    | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The OAuth scopes supported by the server                                                      |
| `oauthTokenEndpoint`                                                                          | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The OAuth token endpoint URL                                                                  |
| `oauthVersion`                                                                                | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | OAuth version: '2.1' (MCP OAuth), '2.0' (legacy), or 'none'                                   |
| `projectId`                                                                                   | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the project                                                                         |
| `registryId`                                                                                  | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the MCP registry                                                                    |
| `registryServerName`                                                                          | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The name of the external MCP server (e.g., exa)                                               |
| `remoteUrl`                                                                                   | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The URL to connect to the MCP server                                                          |
| `requiresOauth`                                                                               | *boolean*                                                                                     | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | Whether the external MCP server requires OAuth authentication                                 |
| `schema`                                                                                      | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | JSON schema for the request                                                                   |
| `schemaVersion`                                                                               | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Version of the schema                                                                         |
| `slug`                                                                                        | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The slug used for tool prefixing (e.g., github)                                               |
| `summarizer`                                                                                  | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Summarizer for the tool                                                                       |
| `toolUrn`                                                                                     | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The URN of this tool                                                                          |
| `transportType`                                                                               | [components.TransportType](../../models/components/transporttype.md)                          | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The transport type used to connect to the MCP server                                          |
| `type`                                                                                        | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Whether or not the tool is a proxy tool                                                       |
| `updatedAt`                                                                                   | [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The last update date of the tool.                                                             |
| `variation`                                                                                   | [components.ToolVariation](../../models/components/toolvariation.md)                          | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | N/A                                                                                           |

Commit message:

fix external mcp tool calling

client/sdk/docs/models/components/externalmcptooldefinition.md, after:

# ExternalMCPToolDefinition

A proxy tool that references an external MCP server

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { ExternalMCPToolDefinition } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: ExternalMCPToolDefinition = {
  canonicalName: "<value>",
  createdAt: new Date("2026-07-07T10:46:48.668Z"),
  deploymentExternalMcpId: "<id>",
  deploymentId: "<id>",
  description: "mean atop hmph truly like",
  id: "<id>",
  name: "<value>",
  oauthVersion: "<value>",
  projectId: "<id>",
  registryId: "<id>",
  registryServerName: "<value>",
  registrySpecifier: "<value>",
  remoteUrl: "https://overcooked-tuber.biz/",
  requiresOauth: false,
  schema: "<value>",
  slug: "<value>",
  toolUrn: "<value>",
  transportType: "streamable-http",
  updatedAt: new Date("2024-03-12T13:39:32.098Z"),
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                                         | Type                                                                                          | Required                                                                                      | Description                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `canonical`                                                                                   | [components.CanonicalToolAttributes](../../models/components/canonicaltoolattributes.md)      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The original details of a tool                                                                |
| `canonicalName`                                                                               | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The canonical name of the tool. Will be the same as the name if there is no variation.        |
| `confirm`                                                                                     | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Confirmation mode for the tool                                                                |
| `confirmPrompt`                                                                               | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Prompt for the confirmation                                                                   |
| `createdAt`                                                                                   | [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The creation date of the tool.                                                                |
| `deploymentExternalMcpId`                                                                     | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the deployments_external_mcps record                                                |
| `deploymentId`                                                                                | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the deployment                                                                      |
| `description`                                                                                 | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | Description of the tool                                                                       |
| `id`                                                                                          | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the tool                                                                            |
| `name`                                                                                        | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The name of the tool                                                                          |
| `oauthAuthorizationEndpoint`                                                                  | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The OAuth authorization endpoint URL                                                          |
| `oauthRegistrationEndpoint`                                                                   | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The OAuth dynamic client registration endpoint URL                                            |
| `oauthScopesSupported`                                                                        | *string*[]                                                                                    | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The OAuth scopes supported by the server                                                      |
| `oauthTokenEndpoint`                                                                          | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The OAuth token endpoint URL                                                                  |
| `oauthVersion`                                                                                | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | OAuth version: '2.1' (MCP OAuth), '2.0' (legacy), or 'none'                                   |
| `projectId`                                                                                   | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the project                                                                         |
| `registryId`                                                                                  | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the MCP registry                                                                    |
| `registryServerName`                                                                          | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The name of the external MCP server (e.g., exa)                                               |
| `registrySpecifier`                                                                           | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The specifier of the external MCP server (e.g., 'io.modelcontextprotocol.anonymous/exa')      |
| `remoteUrl`                                                                                   | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The URL to connect to the MCP server                                                          |
| `requiresOauth`                                                                               | *boolean*                                                                                     | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | Whether the external MCP server requires OAuth authentication                                 |
| `schema`                                                                                      | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | JSON schema for the request                                                                   |
| `schemaVersion`                                                                               | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Version of the schema                                                                         |
| `slug`                                                                                        | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The slug used for tool prefixing (e.g., github)                                               |
| `summarizer`                                                                                  | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Summarizer for the tool                                                                       |
| `toolUrn`                                                                                     | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The URN of this tool                                                                          |
| `transportType`                                                                               | [components.TransportType](../../models/components/transporttype.md)                          | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The transport type used to connect to the MCP server                                          |
| `type`                                                                                        | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Whether or not the tool is a proxy tool                                                       |
| `updatedAt`                                                                                   | [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The last update date of the tool.                                                             |
| `variation`                                                                                   | [components.ToolVariation](../../models/components/toolvariation.md)                          | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | N/A                                                                                           |
