client/sdk/docs/models/components/mcpmetadata.md, before:

# McpMetadata

Metadata used to configure the MCP install page.

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { McpMetadata } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: McpMetadata = {
  createdAt: new Date("2024-09-09T07:11:07.924Z"),
  id: "<id>",
  toolsetId: "d6857a14-9fe0-4abf-b801-5641a43197a3",
  updatedAt: new Date("2025-07-05T03:59:55.214Z"),
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                                         | Type                                                                                          | Required                                                                                      | Description                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `createdAt`                                                                                   | [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | When the metadata entry was created                                                           |
| `defaultEnvironmentId`                                                                        | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The default environment to load variables from                                                |
| `environmentConfigs`                                                                          | [components.McpEnvironmentConfig](../../models/components/mcpenvironmentconfig.md)[]          | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The list of environment variables configured for this MCP                                     |
| `externalDocumentationUrl`                                                                    | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | A link to external documentation for the MCP install page                                     |
| `id`                                                                                          | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the metadata record                                                                 |
| `instructions`                                                                                | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Server instructions returned in the MCP initialize response                                   |
| `logoAssetId`                                                                                 | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The asset ID for the MCP install page logo                                                    |
| `toolsetId`                                                                                   | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The toolset associated with this install page metadata                                        |
| `updatedAt`                                                                                   | [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | When the metadata entry was last updated                                                      |

Commit message:

feat: install page redirect support (#1401)
<img width="2222" height="2096" alt="CleanShot 2026-01-29 at 09 02
15@2x"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/76d8a63f-1cb3-42c0-ae0d-4ce2d8f76f27"
/>

<!-- devin-review-badge-begin -->

---

<a href="https://app.devin.ai/review/speakeasy-api/gram/pull/1401">
  <picture>
<source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
srcset="https://static.devin.ai/assets/gh-open-in-devin-review-dark.svg?v=1">
<img
src="https://static.devin.ai/assets/gh-open-in-devin-review-light.svg?v=1"
alt="Open with Devin">
  </picture>
</a>
<!-- devin-review-badge-end -->

client/sdk/docs/models/components/mcpmetadata.md, after:

# McpMetadata

Metadata used to configure the MCP install page.

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { McpMetadata } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: McpMetadata = {
  createdAt: new Date("2024-09-09T07:11:07.924Z"),
  id: "<id>",
  toolsetId: "d6857a14-9fe0-4abf-b801-5641a43197a3",
  updatedAt: new Date("2025-07-05T03:59:55.214Z"),
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                                         | Type                                                                                          | Required                                                                                      | Description                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `createdAt`                                                                                   | [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | When the metadata entry was created                                                           |
| `defaultEnvironmentId`                                                                        | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The default environment to load variables from                                                |
| `environmentConfigs`                                                                          | [components.McpEnvironmentConfig](../../models/components/mcpenvironmentconfig.md)[]          | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The list of environment variables configured for this MCP                                     |
| `externalDocumentationUrl`                                                                    | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | A link to external documentation for the MCP install page                                     |
| `id`                                                                                          | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The ID of the metadata record                                                                 |
| `installationOverrideUrl`                                                                     | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | URL to redirect to instead of showing the default installation page                           |
| `instructions`                                                                                | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | Server instructions returned in the MCP initialize response                                   |
| `logoAssetId`                                                                                 | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                            | The asset ID for the MCP install page logo                                                    |
| `toolsetId`                                                                                   | *string*                                                                                      | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | The toolset associated with this install page metadata                                        |
| `updatedAt`                                                                                   | [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                            | When the metadata entry was last updated                                                      |
