client/sdk/docs/models/components/searchlogsresult.md, before:

# SearchLogsResult

Result of searching telemetry logs

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { SearchLogsResult } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: SearchLogsResult = {
  logs: [
    {
      attributes: "<value>",
      body: "<value>",
      id: "47253e24-ed4a-4b77-b33a-8b3a3de7248f",
      observedTimeUnixNano: 466583,
      resourceAttributes: "<value>",
      service: {
        name: "<value>",
      },
      timeUnixNano: 884724,
    },
  ],
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                            | Type                                                                             | Required                                                                         | Description                                                                      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `logs`                                                                           | [components.TelemetryLogRecord](../../models/components/telemetrylogrecord.md)[] | :heavy_check_mark:                                                               | List of telemetry log records                                                    |
| `nextCursor`                                                                     | *string*                                                                         | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                               | Cursor for next page                                                             |

Commit message:

chore: improve telemetry setup (#1160)
This is part of cleaning up the logs domain:
https://linear.app/speakeasy/issue/AGE-1076/chore-cleanup-server-code

Currently the decision of whether something should or shouldn't be
logged lives within the repo, which is not right. It raises issues when
I try to deprecate the old logs code, as the frontend relies on this to
know whether to display logs or not.

What I did here was to move the check for logs enabled up one level
(from repo to service), and pass in the product features client as a
dependency to it.

client/sdk/docs/models/components/searchlogsresult.md, after:

# SearchLogsResult

Result of searching telemetry logs

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { SearchLogsResult } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: SearchLogsResult = {
  enabled: false,
  logs: [],
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                            | Type                                                                             | Required                                                                         | Description                                                                      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `enabled`                                                                        | *boolean*                                                                        | :heavy_check_mark:                                                               | Whether tool metrics are enabled for the organization                            |
| `logs`                                                                           | [components.TelemetryLogRecord](../../models/components/telemetrylogrecord.md)[] | :heavy_check_mark:                                                               | List of telemetry log records                                                    |
| `nextCursor`                                                                     | *string*                                                                         | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                               | Cursor for next page                                                             |
