client/sdk/docs/models/components/setmcpmetadatarequestbody.md, before:

# SetMcpMetadataRequestBody

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { SetMcpMetadataRequestBody } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: SetMcpMetadataRequestBody = {
  toolsetSlug: "<value>",
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                                          | Type                                                                                           | Required                                                                                       | Description                                                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `defaultEnvironmentId`                                                                         | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | The default environment to load variables from                                                 |
| `environmentConfigs`                                                                           | [components.McpEnvironmentConfigInput](../../models/components/mcpenvironmentconfiginput.md)[] | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | The list of environment variables to configure for this MCP                                    |
| `externalDocumentationUrl`                                                                     | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | A link to external documentation for the MCP install page                                      |
| `instructions`                                                                                 | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | Server instructions returned in the MCP initialize response                                    |
| `logoAssetId`                                                                                  | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | The asset ID for the MCP install page logo                                                     |
| `toolsetSlug`                                                                                  | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                             | The slug of the toolset associated with this install page metadata                             |

Commit message:

feat: install page redirect support (#1401)
<img width="2222" height="2096" alt="CleanShot 2026-01-29 at 09 02
15@2x"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/76d8a63f-1cb3-42c0-ae0d-4ce2d8f76f27"
/>

<!-- devin-review-badge-begin -->

---

<a href="https://app.devin.ai/review/speakeasy-api/gram/pull/1401">
  <picture>
<source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
srcset="https://static.devin.ai/assets/gh-open-in-devin-review-dark.svg?v=1">
<img
src="https://static.devin.ai/assets/gh-open-in-devin-review-light.svg?v=1"
alt="Open with Devin">
  </picture>
</a>
<!-- devin-review-badge-end -->

client/sdk/docs/models/components/setmcpmetadatarequestbody.md, after:

# SetMcpMetadataRequestBody

## Example Usage

```typescript
import { SetMcpMetadataRequestBody } from "@gram/client/models/components";

let value: SetMcpMetadataRequestBody = {
  toolsetSlug: "<value>",
};
```

## Fields

| Field                                                                                          | Type                                                                                           | Required                                                                                       | Description                                                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `defaultEnvironmentId`                                                                         | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | The default environment to load variables from                                                 |
| `environmentConfigs`                                                                           | [components.McpEnvironmentConfigInput](../../models/components/mcpenvironmentconfiginput.md)[] | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | The list of environment variables to configure for this MCP                                    |
| `externalDocumentationUrl`                                                                     | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | A link to external documentation for the MCP install page                                      |
| `installationOverrideUrl`                                                                      | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | URL to redirect to instead of showing the default installation page                            |
| `instructions`                                                                                 | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | Server instructions returned in the MCP initialize response                                    |
| `logoAssetId`                                                                                  | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_minus_sign:                                                                             | The asset ID for the MCP install page logo                                                     |
| `toolsetSlug`                                                                                  | *string*                                                                                       | :heavy_check_mark:                                                                             | The slug of the toolset associated with this install page metadata                             |
